  	

Well, since this post failed badly, I had to dig into the matter myself.

So here goes:
Preprocessor

The following two symbols need to be fed to the preprocessor to enable SSL for libcurl:

USE_SSLEAY
USE_OPENSSL

(libcurl uses OpenSSL for SSL support)

Alternatively the symbols can be added directly to a file called setup.h in libcurl, but I'm not too happy about modifying code in 3rd party distributions unless I really have to.

Rebuilding the libcurl library, I now got some errors about OpenSSL include files not being found. Naturally, since I haven't set up the OpenSSL distribution properly yet.
Compiling OpenSSL binaries

I downloaded the OpenSSL 0.9.8 source distribution and unpacked it.

In the root of the source distribution there's a file called INSTALL.W32 which describes how to compile the OpenSSL binaries. The build chain requires perl, so I installed the latest version of ActivePerl.

I had some trouble with the build, which might not be applicable to all systems, but I'll go through it here in case somebody experiences the same.

According to INSTALL.W32:

Run the following commandline tasks with current directory set to the source distribution root:

1> perl Configure VC-WIN32 --prefix=c:/some/openssl/dir

(Where "c:/some/openssl/dir" should be replaced by the dir where OpenSSL should be installed. Don't use spaces in this path. The compilation further ahead will fail in that case)

2> ms\do_ms

(For me this step was unsuccessful at first, since I lacked the environment variables OSVERSION and TARGETCPU. I set these to 5.1.2600 and x86 respectively. You may get complaint about OSVERSION being "insane", but look closer, this error is for WinCE and doesn't affect the Win32 setup.)

3> nmake -f ms\nt.mak (for static library)

or

3> nmake -f ms\ntdll.mak (for DLL)

The source now compiles. Took approx 5 minutes on my laptop.

When compilation is completed, the libs or binaries have been placed in:

distroot/out32 - for static library build

or

distroot/out32dll - for DLL build